<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0 plus SVG 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/2002/04/xhtml-math-svg/xhtml-math-svg-flat.dtd" >
        <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
        <head>
          <title>Gss Usage in Cartagen Wiki</title>
          <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  
          <style type="text/css">
            h1#pageName, .newWikiWord a, a.existingWikiWord, .newWikiWord a:hover { 
              color: #008B26; 
            }
            .newWikiWord { background-color: white; font-style: italic; }
            body {
background-color:#FFF;
color:#333;
font-family:Verdana, Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
font-size:1em;
line-height:1.3em;
}

#Container {
margin:0 10px;
text-align:center;
}

#Content {
border-top:none;
margin:auto;
padding:0.3em;
text-align:left;
width:100%;
max-width:55em;
}

a:visited {
color:#555;
}

h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6 {
color:#333;
font-family:georgia, verdana, sans-serif;
}

h1 {
font-size:200%;
}

h2 {
font-size:173%;
}

h3 {
font-size:144%;
}

h4 {
font-size:120%;
}

h5,h6 {
font-size:100%
}

h1#pageName {
line-height:1em;
margin:0.2em 0 0.2em 0;
padding:0;
}

h1#pageName small {
color:#444;
font-size:35%;
line-height:1em;
padding:0;
}

#svg_logo {
float:left;
margin:.5em .25em 0 -.625em;
width:1.5em;
height:1.625em;
}

a.nav,a.nav:link,a.nav:visited {
background-color:#FFF;
color:#000;
}

table {
border:double #000;
border-collapse:collapse;
}

td {
border:thin solid #888;
}

li {
margin-bottom:0.5em;
}

.newWikiWord {
background-color:#DDD;
}

.newWikiWord a:hover {
background-color:#FFF;
}

.deleteWikiWord {
background-color:#FCC;
border: 3px solid blue;
padding: 2px;
}

.deleteWikiWord:hover, .deleteWikiWord a:hover {
background-color:#F88;
}


form#navigationSearchForm {
display:inline;
}

form#navigationSearchForm input {
font-size:80%;
}

.navigation {
color:#555;
font-size:90%;
margin-top:0.3em;
}

.navigation a:hover {
background-color:#000;
color:#FFF;
text-decoration:none;
}

.navigation a {
color:#000;
font-weight:bold;
}

.navigation small a {
font-size:90%;
font-weight:normal;
}

.navOn {
color:#444;
font-weight:bold;
text-decoration:none;
}

div.help {
font-family:verdana, arial, helvetica, sans-serif;
font-size:75%;
}

div.inputBox {
background-color:#EEE;
font-family:verdana, arial, helvetica, sans-serif;
font-size:80%;
margin-bottom:1.5em;
padding:0.3em;
}

blockquote {
display:block;
font-size:90%;
font-style:italic;
line-height:1.5em;
margin:0 0 1.5em;
padding:0 2.5em;
}

pre {
background-color:#DDD;
font-size:90%;
overflow:auto;
padding:1em;
}

ol.setup {
font-family:georgia, verdana, sans-serif;
font-size:110%;
margin-top:1em;
padding-left:1.5em;
}

.byline {
color:#666;
font-size:.8em;
font-style:italic;
margin-bottom:1em;
padding-top:1px;
}

p.show_diff {
background: #eee;
padding: 3px;
border: 1px solid silver;
font-size:.85em;
}

span.webName {
font-size:.5em;
}

span.views, span.linked {
font-size:.85em;
}
.views a, .linked a {
font-weight: normal
}
span.revisions {
font-size:.95em
}

#allPages, #wantedPages {
float: left;
width: 280px;
}
#allPages {
margin-right: 30px;
}
#allPages h2, #wantedPages h2 {
font-size: 1.2em;
} 

.pageType {
font-size: .75em;
font-style: italic;
}

p.pageStats, span.unlock {
font-size: .85em;
}

.diffdel,del.diffmod, .diffdel *, del.diffmod * {
background-color:#FAA;
text-decoration:line-through;
}

.diffins,ins.diffmod, .diffins *, ins.diffmod * {
background-color:#AFA;
text-decoration:underline;
}

.diffmod, .diffmod * {
border: 2px solid #FE0;
}

#footer {
color:#666;
font-size:.75em;
font-style:italic;
line-height:1.2em;
padding-top:2em;
text-align:right;
}

#footer a:link,#footer a:visited {
color:#777;
font-style:italic;
}
#footer a:hover {
color:#FFF;
}

div.web_normal {
	padding:4px;
}

div.web_protected {
	padding:4px;
	background-color:#DDD;
}

div.inputFieldWithPrompt {
margin:0.75em 0;
}

div.errorExplanation {
background-color:#FFA;
color:#900;
font-style:italic;
font-weight:bold;
margin:1.5em 0;
padding:1em;
width:100%;
}

div.errorExplanation h2 {
display:none;
}

div.errorExplanation ul {
border:none;
margin:0.5em 0 0 2em;
padding:0;
}

div.fieldWithErrors input {
border:1px solid #900;
}

div.info {
background-color:#DDD;
color:#060;
font-weight:bold;
margin-top:0.5em;
padding:0.5em;
width:100%;
}

div#editFormButtons {
margin:0.5em 0 0;
}

div#editFormButtons span {
white-space:nowrap;
}

div#editForm textarea#content {
}

div#MarkupHelp {
float:right;
margin-top:0.5em;
width:25%;
}

div#MarkupHelp table {
border-bottom:3px solid #BBB;
border-left:3px solid #999;
border-right:3px solid #BBB;
border-top:3px solid #999;
margin-bottom:0;
}

div#MarkupHelp td {
border:1px solid #999;
border-width:1px 0;
font-size:80%;
margin:0;
padding:0.2em;
vertical-align:top;
white-space:nowrap;
}

div#MarkupHelp td.arrow {
color:#666;
padding:0 0.75em;
}

div#MarkupHelp h3 {
font-size:90%;
font-weight:bold;
margin:0 0 5px;
padding:5px 0 0;
}

div#MarkupHelp p {
font-size:70%;
}

div.rightHandSide {
border-left:1px dotted #ccc;
border-bottom:1px dotted #ccc;
float:right;
font-size:80%;
margin-left:0.7em;
padding-left:1.5em;
width:25%;
}

.newsList {
margin-top:1.5em;
}

.newsList p {
margin-bottom:2.5em;
}

.property {
color:#666;
font-size:80%;
}

a,li span {
color:#000;
}

a:hover,a.nav:hover, a:hover math {
background-color:#000;
color:#FFF;
}

div.errorExplanation p,div.errorExplanation li {
border:none;
margin:0;
padding:0;
}

merror {display:inline;font-size:1em;}
math[display=block] {overflow:auto;}
math { white-space: nowrap }
.maruku-eq-number {float:right}
.maruku-equation {text-align:center}
.blockquotesource {margin-left:1em;}
fieldset.search {display:inline; border:none;padding:0;margin:0;top:5px;position:relative;}
span.keyboard {
 background: #CCC;
 color: #000;
 border: outset 2px;
 font-family:verdana, arial, sans-serif;
 font-size: .7em;
 margin-left:5px;
 padding:1px 2px;
}
.centeredfigure {
 position:relative;
 margin:auto;
 text-align:center;
}

body {counter-reset: theorem lemma proposition corollary definition example remark note}
.un_theorem *, .num_theorem *,
.un_lemma *, .num_lemma *,
.un_prop *, .num_prop *,
.un_cor *, .num_cor * {font-style: italic}
span.theorem_label {font-style:normal; font-weight:bold;}
.proof span.theorem_label {font-style:italic;}
.num_theorem .theorem_label:after {
   content: " " counter(theorem); counter-increment: theorem;}
.num_lemma .theorem_label:after {
   content: " " counter(lemma); counter-increment: lemma;}
.num_prop .theorem_label:after {
   content: " " counter(proposition); counter-increment: proposition;}
.num_cor .theorem_label:after {
   content: " " counter(corollary); counter-increment: corollary;}
.num_defn .theorem_label:after {
   content: " " counter(definition); counter-increment: definition;}
.num_example .theorem_label:after {
   content: " " counter(example); counter-increment: example;}
.num_remark .theorem_label:after {
   content: " " counter(remark); counter-increment: remark;}
.num_note .theorem_label:after {
   content: " " counter(note); counter-increment: note;}


          </style>
          <style type="text/css">
            html { background:#ddd;padding: 5px 20px;font-size:0.8em; font-family:Lucida Grande,Helvetica,sans-serif;}
img { border:0; }
body { background:white;padding:30px; }
code,pre { background:#E3E6F5;padding:12px;font-size:1.1em;}
code { line-height:3em; }
a { color:#F87858; }
a:hover { background:#eee; }
a:visited, a:hover { color:#C95325; }
table { border: 2px solid #ccc; border-bottom:none; border-right:none; }
td, th { padding:5px 8px; border-right: 2px solid #ccc; border-bottom: 2px solid #ccc; }
div.sidebar {
float:right;
width:240px;
padding:10px;
border-left:1px solid #ccc;
margin:15px;
margin-right:0;
padding-right:0;
}
div.header {
font-family:georgia,serif;
width: 100%;
margin-top: 10px;
margin-bottom: 10px;
padding-top: 8px;
padding-bottom: 8px;
border-top:1px solid #ccc;
border-bottom:1px solid #ccc;
font-size:1.2em;
text-align: center;
}
div.header a {
padding:4px;
}
div.header a img {
display:none;
}

h1 {
font-size:3.5em;
font-weight:normal;
letter-spacing:-1px;
}
h2 {
line-height:1.4em;
font-size:2.2em;
display: block;
letter-spacing:-1px;
width:100%;
/*border-bottom: 2px solid #ddd;*/
padding-top:8px;
font-weight:normal;
}
h3 {
font-weight:normal;
font-style:italic;
}
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
          </style>
        </head>
        <body>
          <h1 id="pageName">
            <span class="webName">Cartagen Wiki</span><br />
            Gss Usage    
          </h1>
          <h2 id='background_and_examples_1'>Background and Examples</h2>

<p>GSS is valid JSON (<a href='http://www.json.org/'>http://www.json.org/</a>), but follows the format of CSS as much as possible.</p>

<p>To see a fairly long GSS file, visit <a href='http://cartagen.org/static/rome/style.gss'>http://cartagen.org/static/rome/style.gss</a>, or visit the <a class='existingWikiWord' href='StylesheetGallery.xhtml'>Stylesheet Gallery</a></p>

<p>Here’s an example style from a GSS file:</p>
<pre>footway: {
	lineWidth: 2,
	strokeStyle: &quot;#842&quot;
},
</pre>
<h2 id='selectors_2'>Selectors</h2>

<h3 id='typebased_selectors_3'>Type-based Selectors</h3>

<p>GSS selectors are matched against the type of feature (node, way, or relation), so you can create a style that affects all ways like this:</p>
<code>way: {
	strokeStyle: &quot;blue&quot;,
	opacity: 0.5
}
</code>
<p>This kind of style takes the lowest priority – it will be overridden by name-based or tag-based styles.</p>

<h3 id='namebased_selectors_4'>Name-based Selectors</h3>

<p>You can style a specific feature by name, for example the lake Tjörnin, in Reykjavik, Iceland. Outlining the lake itself in blue could be done with the following style:</p>
<code>&quot;Tjörnin&quot;: {
	lineWidth: 4,
	strokeStyle: &quot;blue&quot;
}</code>
<h3 id='tagbased_selectors_5'>Tag-based Selectors</h3>

<p>Selectors can also reference tags that features may have. They are matched against both the key and the value of the tag. For example, to turn churches green, use this code:</p>
<code>church: {
	fillStyle: &quot;green&quot;
}</code>
<h2 id='dynamic_styles_6'>Dynamic Styles</h2>

<p>GSS is capable of handling “dynamic” styles – styles specified as JavaScript code by <a href='http://www.merchantos.com'>pos system</a>, <a href='http://www.itretail.com'>grocery pos software</a> rather than as a static value. Here’s an example:</p>
<pre>way: {
	strokeStyle: function() { 
		return color_from_string(this.user)
	},
	lineWidth: 2,
	fillStyle: &quot;white&quot;
},
</pre>
<p>In the above example <a href='http://www.essaywriter.co.uk/services.aspx'>essays</a>, the JavaScript code is executed once, when the element is first loaded. If you want the function to be re-executed periodically, you can specify the interval (in seconds) with the “update” property:</p>
<pre>way: {
	strokeStyle: function() { 
		return color_from_string(this.user)
	},
	lineWidth: 2,
	fillStyle: &quot;white&quot;,
	update: {
		strokeStyle: 30
	}
},
</pre>
<p>In that example, the strokeStyle function is run once, then the result is used for 30 seconds. After 30 seconds, the function is run again, and the new value is used <span>bodybuilding workout shirts</span>http://www.bodybuildingworkoutshirts.com/).</p>

<h2 id='hover_and_MouseDown_styles_7'>Hover and MouseDown styles</h2>

<p>For hover and mouseDown styles, the syntax is:</p>
<pre>building: {
	lineWidth: 0.001,
	fillStyle: &quot;#444&quot;,
	hover: {
		fillStyle: &#39;#222&#39;
	},
	mouseDown: {
		lineWidth: 4,
		strokeStyle: &quot;red&quot;
	}
},
</pre>
<p>The above converts the user name of the contributor (from OSM) to a hex string useable as a color. So what you see is something like this:</p>

<p><a href='http://cartagen.org/?gss=http://unterbahn.com/cartagen/style.gss'>http://cartagen.org/?gss=http://unterbahn.com/cartagen/style.gss</a></p>

<p>To trigger a JavaScript call on <strong>hover</strong> or <strong>mouseDown</strong>, nest an <strong>action</strong> property in the event’s style definition, like so:</p>
<pre>building: {
	lineWidth: 0.001,
	fillStyle: &quot;#444&quot;,
	hover: {
		fillStyle: &#39;#222&#39;,
		action: function() {
			// javascript code goes here
			console.log(&#39;hover!&#39;)
		}
	},
	mouseDown: {
		lineWidth: 4,
		strokeStyle: &quot;red&quot;
	}
},
</pre>
<h2 id='context_menus_8'>Context Menus</h2>

<p>Cartagen’s context menus are controlled entirely by GSS. To create items that are always available, add then to the body style, like this:</p>
<pre>body: {
	menu: {
		&quot;My menu item&quot;: function() {alert(&#39;a message&#39;)},
		&quot;My other item&quot;: function() {alert(&#39;another message&#39;)}
	}
}
</pre>
<p>The function associated with the menu item can contain any valid Javascript.</p>

<p>Context menus may also be applied to specific features, like other GSS styles.</p>
<pre>building: {
	menu: {
		&quot;Show the name&quot;: function(){alert(this.tags.get(&#39;name&#39;))}
	}
}</pre>
<p>Note that the “this” keyword in the function associated with the menu item refers to the feature that the context menu was invoked upon.</p>

<h2 id='colors_9'>Colors</h2>

<p>Colors are handled the same way as in CSS. There are four formats:</p>

<ol>
<li>
<p>A color name, like “blue” or “red”. A fill list is at <a href='http://www.w3schools.com/css/css_colornames.asp'>w3schools</a>.</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>A hex string that specifies red, green, and blue values in base 16, like #1a44bf or #3db.</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>An rgb definition that specifies red, green, and blue values out of 255, like rgb(10, 100, 255).</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>An rgba definiton, which works like an rgb definition, but also has an alpha (opacity) value between 0 and 1. 1 is fully opaque, 0 is fully transparent. For example, rgba(255, 0, 0, 0.5) is half-transparent red.</p>
</li>
</ol>

<p>In the below reference, “Color” refers to a string in one of the above formats.</p>

<h2 id='reference_10'>Reference</h2>

<p>Here’s a list of all the GSS properties and what they do:</p>

<h3 id='fillstyle_11'>fillStyle</h3>

<p>The color a closed way is filled with.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: Color</p>

<p><strong>Default</strong>: Transparent</p>

<h3 id='pattern_12'>pattern</h3>

<p>The pattern to fill a closed way with. Overrides fillStyle.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: String - path to the image</p>

<p><strong>Default</strong>: No pattern</p>

<h3 id='strokestyle_13'>strokeStyle</h3>

<p>The color of an unclosed way, or the border of a closed way.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: Color</p>

<p><strong>Default</strong>: Black</p>

<h3 id='opacity_14'>opacity</h3>

<p>The opacity of the feature. 1 is fully opaque, 0 is fully transparent. To control the opacity of individual parts of a feature (e.g. just the fill, or just the stroke), use an rgba color definition (see above) for that part.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: Number - between 0 and 1, inclusive</p>

<p><strong>Default</strong>: 1</p>

<h3 id='linewidth_15'>lineWidth</h3>

<p>The width, in pixels, of an unclosed way, or the width of the border of a closed way.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: Number - non-negative integer</p>

<p><strong>Default</strong>: 6</p>

<h3 id='outlinecolor_16'>outlineColor</h3>

<p>The color of the outline of a way.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: Color</p>

<p><strong>Default</strong>: No outline</p>

<h3 id='outlinewidth_17'>outlineWidth</h3>

<p>The width of the outline of a way.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: Number - non-negative integer</p>

<p><strong>Default</strong>: No outline</p>

<h3 id='radius_18'>radius</h3>

<p>The radius, in pixels, of a node.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: Number - non-negative integer</p>

<p><strong>Default</strong>: 6</p>

<h3 id='image_19'>image</h3>

<p>The image to draw at the center of a way. Should be the path to the image.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: String - path to the image</p>

<p><strong>Default</strong>: No pattern</p>

<h3 id='text_20'>text</h3>

<p>Text to display as the label of a way.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: String</p>

<p><strong>Default</strong>: No label</p>

<h3 id='fontcolor_21'>fontColor</h3>

<p>Color to draw label text in.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: Color</p>

<p><strong>Default</strong>: #eee</p>

<h3 id='fontsize_22'>fontSize</h3>

<p>Size, in points, of the label text.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: Number - non-negative integer</p>

<p><strong>Default</strong>: 11</p>

<h3 id='fontscale_23'>fontScale</h3>

<p>Whether the label should scale with the zoom level.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: Boolean</p>

<p><strong>Default</strong>: false</p>

<h3 id='fontbackground_24'>fontBackground</h3>

<p>Background color to draw behind label.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: Color <strong>Default</strong>: No background</p>

<p>/)###</p>

<h3 id='fontrotation_25'>fontRotation</h3>

<p>Angle, in radians, to rotate the label by. Set to “fixed” to force label to not rotate with map in . Note that unclosed ways’ labels are automatically rotate to align with the way.</p>

<p><strong>Type</strong>: Boolean or String</p>

<p><strong>Default</strong>: 0</p>
          <div class="byline">
            Revised on September 05, 2011 12:13:46
            by
            <a class="existingWikiWord" href="Jeffrey+Warren.xhtml">Jeffrey Warren</a>
          </div>
        </body>
        </html>
